add new fusion landing page (#8045)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/fusion/supported-features.md

</VersionBlock>

## Requirements

To use Fusion in your dbt project:
- You're using a supported adapter and authentication method:
  <FusionDWH /> 
- Have only SQL models defined in your project. Python models are not currently supported because Fusion cannot parse these to extract dependencies (refs) on other models. <!-- [TODO: Link to dbt-fusion Python issue.] -->

## Parity with dbt Core

> Our goal is for the <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> to support all capabilities of the <Constant name="core" /> framework, and then some. Fusion already supports many of the capabilities in <Constant name="core" /> v1.9, and we're working fast to add more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our goal is for the <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> to support all capabilities of the <Constant name="core" /> framework, and then some. <Constant name="fusion" /> already supports many of the capabilities in <Constant name="core" /> v1.9, and we're working fast to add more.
```

> Note that we have removed some deprecated features, and introduced more-rigorous validation of erroneous project code. Refer to the [Upgrade guide](/docs/dbt-versions/core-upgrade/upgrading-to-fusion) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that we have removed some deprecated features and introduced more rigorous validation of erroneous project code. Refer to the [Upgrade guide](/docs/dbt-versions/core-upgrade/upgrading-to-fusion) for details.
```

## Features and capabilities
<!-- table 2 for feature comparison (“What’s available where?”)-->

> - <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> (built on Rust) gives your team 30x faster performance and comes with different features depending on where you use it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> (built on Rust) gives your team up to 30x faster performance and comes with different features depending on where you use it. 
```

> - It powers both _engine-level_ improvements (like faster compilation and incremental builds) and _editor-level features_ (like IntelliSense, hover info, and inline errors) through the LSP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It powers both _engine-level_ improvements (like faster compilation and incremental builds) and _editor-level_ features (like IntelliSense, hover info, and inline errors) through the LSP.
```

- To stay up-to-date on the latest features and capabilities, check out the [Fusion diaries](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-fusion/discussions).

> If you're not sure what is available where, check out the following table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're not sure what features are available, check out the following table.
```

> ✅ = Available | 🟡 = Partial / at compile-time only | ❌ = Not available | Coming soon = Not yet available

| **Category / Capability** | **dbt Core**<br /><small>(self-hosted)</small> | **Fusion CLI**<br/><small>(self-hosted)</small> | **VS Code <br />+ Fusion** | **<Constant name="dbt_platform" />*** |
|:---------------------------|:--------------------:|:--------------------:|:------------------:|:----------------------:|
| **Engine performance** |  |  |  |  |
| SQL compilation | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| SQL compilation and parsing (SQL understanding) | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Uses the <Constant name="fusion_engine"/> | ❌ <br /><small>(Built on Python)</small> | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |

> | 30xh faster parse / compile | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Up to 30x faster parse / compile | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
```

| **Editor and development experience** |  |  |  |  |
| IntelliSense / autocomplete / hover info | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Inline errors (on save / in editor) | ❌ | 🟡 | ✅ | ✅ |
| Live CTE previews / compiled SQL view | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Refactoring tools (rename model / column) | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | Coming soon |
| Go-to definition / references | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | Coming soon |
| Column-level lineage (in editor) | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | Coming soon |
| **Platform and governance** |  |  |  |  |
| Advanced CI compare changes | ❌ | ❌  | ✅ | ✅ |
| dbt Mesh | ❌ | ❌  | ✅ | ✅ |
| State-aware orchestration (SAO) | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ |
| Governance (PII / PHI tracking) | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | Coming soon |
| CI/CD cost optimization (Slimmer CI) | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | Coming soon |

*Support for other <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> tools, like <Constant name="semantic_layer" /> and <Constant name="explorer" />, is coming soon.

#### Additional considerations
Here are some additional considerations if using the Fusion CLI or VS Code extension:
    - **Fusion CLI** ([binary](/blog/dbt-fusion-engine-components))
      - Free to use and runs on the <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> (distinct from <Constant name="core" />). 

>       - Benefits from Fusion engine’s performance for `parse`, `compile`, `build`, and `run`, but _doesn't_ include visual and interactive [features](/docs/dbt-extension-features) like autocomplete, hover insights, lineage, and more.  

Reviewer: But these features are available in the extension. Should the above say "Here are some additional considerations if using the Fusion CLI without the VS Code extension"?

      - Requires `profiles.yml` only (no `dbt_cloud.yml`).
    - **dbt VS Code extension**

>       - Free to use and runs with the <Constant name="fusion_engine" />; register your email after 14 days. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Free to use and runs on the <Constant name="fusion_engine" />; register your email within 14 days. 
```

      - Benefits from <Constant name="fusion" /> engine’s performance for `parse`, `compile`, `build`, and `run`, and also includes visual and interactive [features](/docs/dbt-extension-features) like autocomplete, hover insights, lineage, and more.

>       - Capped at 15 users per organization.

Reviewer: Let me know if you have any questions about this
```suggestion
      - Usage limits apply. See the [acceptable use policy](https://www.getdbt.com/dbt-assets/vscode-plugin-aup) for more information.
```

Author: good call! is it to point to the source of truth? if so, we [mention 15 users in the vsce doc](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/install-dbt-extension#register-the-extension) so we should update that too.

Author: actually i think we should be clear on this and link to the usage limits doc. i know there was confusion/questions in the slack
